# Libmat
This is a C matrix library for 42cursus.

## Using system call functions
1. default
	- malloc
	- free
	- write
	- exit
2. affine ( build by ```make affine``` )
	- All functions of the math library

3. debug ( build by ```make debug``` )
	- printf

## Usage
- Run ```make```, a ```libmat.a``` library with the default functions is generated.
- Run ```make affine```, the library is generated by adding functions for affine conversion to the default functions.
- ```make debug```, some functions for debug purposes (eg. check all values in the matrix) are added to default functions.

After building, include libmat.h in your source code and compile it together with ```libmat.a```.

## Functions (default)
### mat_puterror
#### Prototype
```void	mat_puterror(const char *msg)```
#### Description
Outputs the message passed as an argument to ```stderr```.



### mat_new
#### Prototype
```t_matrix	*mat_new(size_t row, size_t col)```
#### Description
Generates a matrix of the size specified by the argument, initialized to 0. The values of the matrix and the structure are allocated from the heap area. If memory allocation fails, the message defined in the ```MALLOC_ERR``` macro is output to strerr, and then the program is killed by the exit function.
#### Return Value
Structure generated as a matrix.

### mat_add
#### Prototype
```t_matrix	*mat_add(t_matrix *a, t_matrix *b)```
#### Description
Generates a new matrix that is the sum of matrix ```a``` and ```b```. If size of ```a``` is not equal to size of ```b```, the message defined in the ```MAT_ADD_ERR``` macro is putted to stderr, and returns null pointer.
#### Return Value
Matrix which is sum of ```a``` and ```b```. If add error occurs, returns null pointer.


